=pod

=head1 NAME

 bbkeys - a general XWindow keygrabber

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bbkeys> [I<OPTIONS>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bbkeys> is the key-grabber for the blackbox window manager.  B<bbkeys>
handles all keybindings and keyboard shortcuts for blackbox.  It uses
blackbox's Image classes for rendering its look and feel so that
B<bbkeys> will render itself to match whatever blackbox style is used.
It is highly configurable either via the L<bbconf(1)> GUI utility or the
(now deprecated) L<bbkeysconf(1)> GUI utility or by hand-editing
B<bbkey>'s configuration file.

=head1 USAGE

On startup, B<bbkeys> reads F<$HOME/.bbkeysrc>, which you can edit by
hand or through L<bbconf(1)> or L<bbkeysconf(1)>.  This is now
configurable through a command-line switch as shown in L</OPTIONS>.

=head1 OPTIONS

A summary of the options supported by B<bbkeys> is included below:

=over

=item B<-d>, B<--display> I<DISPLAY>

The X server to which to connect.

=item B<-D>, B<--debug>

Print debugging information to standard error during operation.

=item B<-c>, B<--config> I<FILENAME>

Use an alternate configuration file.  (The default is F<~/.bbkeysrc>.)h

=item B<-v>, B<--version>

Display the version number and exit.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Display help message and exit.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item F<$HOME/.bbkeysrc>

Maintains key bindings.  See L<bbkeysrc(5)>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<blackbox(1)>,
L<bbconf(1)>,
L<bbkeysconf(1)>,
L<bbkeysrc(5)>.

=head1 BUGS

B<bbkeys> had no known bugs at the time of release.  Please report bugs
for current versions to the source code repository at
L<https://github.com/bbidulock/bbkeys/issues>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock L<mailto:bidulock@openss7.org>.

See B<--copying> for full copyright notice and copying permissions.

=head1 LICENSE

B<bbkeys> is licensed under the MIT License.
See the F<COPYING> file in the distribution or use the B<--copying> flag
to display copying permissions.

=cut

# vim: set sw=4 tw=72 nocin spell spelllang=en_ca:
