.TH BBKEYS 1 "August 04, 2001" "bbtools" bbkeys
.SH NAME
bbkeys \- a general XWindow keygrabber

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bbkeys
[\fIOPTION\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBbbkeys\fR is the keygrabber for the blackbox window manager. \fBbbkeys\fR
handles all keybindings and keyboard shortcuts for  blackbox. It uses
blackbox's Image classes for rendering its look and feel so that \fBbbkeys\fR
will render itself to match whatever blackbox style is used. It is highly
configurable either via the included \fIbbkeysconf\fR GUI utility or by
hand-editting bbkeys's config file.

.SH USAGE
On startup, \fBbbkeys\fR reads \fI$HOME/.bbkeysrc\fR, which you can edit by
hand or through \fIbbkeysconf\fR.

.SH OPTIONS
A summary of the options supported by \fBbbkeys\fR is included below.

.TP
\fB\-c[onfig]\fR \fIfilename\fR
use alternate config file
.TP
\fB\-d[ecorated]\fR
Show 'normal' decorated window
.TP
\fB\-display\fR \fIdisplay name\fR
X server to connect to
.TP
\fB\-geom[etry]\fR \fIgeometry\fR
Set geometry of window
.TP
\fB\-h[elp]\fR
Show summary of options and exit.
.TP
\fB\-i[conic]\fR
start bbkeys in a minimized state (will override -withdrawn directive)
.TP
\fB\-m[iniMe]\fR
like Austin Powers 2. bbkeys, but smaller
.TP
\fB\-n[obb]\fR
Fall back on default configuration
.TP
\fB\-no[qt]\fR
use non-qt configuration tool
.TP
\fB\-s[hape]\fR
Don't display groundplate
.TP
\fB\-t[inyMe]\fR
all you can see is his keyhole
.TP
\fB\-v[ersion]\fR
Display version number
.TP
\fB\-w[ithdrawn]\fR
Place bbtool in the Slit

.SH FILES
.nr
Default: \fI$datadir=/usr/local/share/\fR
.br
\fI$HOME/.bbkeysrc\fR maintains keybindings
.br
See \fIbbkeysrc(5)\fR
.SS "Under Blackbox"
.nf
\fI$datadir/bbtools/bbkeys.bb\fR the global configuration file
\fI$HOME/.bbtools/bbkeys.bb\fR a local configuration file

.SS "Under other Window managers"
.nf
\fI$datadir/bbtools/bbkeys.nobb\fR the global configuration file
\fI$HOME/.bbtools/bbkeys.nobb\fR a local configuration file

.SH VERSION
0.8.1

.SH BUGS
This application is perfect and should solve all of your problems,  up to and
including male pattern baldness and world hunger. Should you, against all
odds, find any bugs, please report them to the author.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bbkeysrc(5),
.BR bbkeys.bb(5)

.SH AUTHOR
.nr
Jason Kasper (vanRijn) <vR@movingparts.net> - bbkeys
.br
Jan Schaumann <jschauma@netmeister.org> - this man page
